-: Welcome back.
So we have just now completed step 0.1,
Introduction for Liveness and then Readiness Probes.
So now let's see what these are,
and then how we are going to define them
in our user management deployment manifest.
Okay, so we are going to create
both liveness and then readiness probes.
And the Liveness probe we are going to define using command
which is nothing but liveness probe with the command SH-C
and then necat-Z localhost 8095.
And for Readiness probe we are going to do it
with HTTP Git and then path
with our same user management health status URL,
whatever we used to test earlier, right?
So the same thing with port S 8095.
And we are going to also provide initial dealer seconds
and then period seconds.
So we'll see what are those things.
Usually initial delay seconds
are nothing but number of seconds
after the container has started
and before Liveness or Readiness probes are initiated.
So the amount of time after container started
and then Readiness or Liveness probes to be triggered.
So the difference time
how much it need to wait before triggering these probes.
So the reason for that is once we start the container
just for the application to settle down,
start and then settle down,
we can give some amount of delay, right?
So usually 10 seconds or 30 seconds
or 50 seconds or 60 seconds, okay?
So default is usually zero seconds
means that default is zero seconds.
And then minimum value allowed here is also zero seconds.
But the core thing here is
we really don't want that edge to be given
and then it got failed
Liveness probe, Readiness probe to be failed.
So usually we'll give 10 seconds to 30 seconds
based on our application.
But for our demo I have given 60 seconds
so that until and unless these 60 seconds are completed,
you are not going to see that the parties running.
It'll not come into the state ready state.
Okay? So always it'll be showing zero by one
not one by one in the ready state.
We are going to identify that now,
to differentiate that or to show that,
I have put 60 seconds here.
But in general, based on your application,
you can put 10 20 or 30 seconds.
Okay? So let's go ahead and then define Liveness probe
and then Readiness probe in our application.
Okay, so here is the thing.
So now if you see here, so it is a image level,
means like container level definition
this Liveness and then Readiness probes.
Okay? So here name,
you see right name image ports
and then raw method
the same level we need to write our Liveness probe.
Okay? So I can say Liveness probe, okay?
I can minimize this and then now go up
and then start writing for the Liveness probe.
Okay, so it can be now
for the Liveness probe it is going to be right.
Execute the command.
Okay? So
execute
and we are going to have a command.
Always I'm typing tab
and we are going to have three commands.
Okay? So one is Ben as
and which is going to be hyphen C, right hyphen C
and next is nnc hyphen Z
and local host
8 0 95, right?
And another thing
which we need to implement under Liveness probes, okay?
So there will be accept, it'll exclude this command
and also it'll add the initial delay seconds.
Okay, so which is going to be 60 seconds, okay?
And there will be one more call period seconds, okay
so which is nothing but how often in seconds
to perform the probe default to 10 seconds.
So every 10 seconds we will do the Liveness probe check
and then also the Readiness probe check.
Okay, so we can say period seconds
and then then in addition to these two things
we will also have some other timeouts here.
Okay? So there will be a documentation link here
exactly to the site.
So if you see here at the end, you'll find other stuff too
which is nothing but time out seconds,
number of seconds after which the probe times out.
Default is one second.
Minimum value is also one unit
to provide successful thresholds,
minimum consecutive to success
for the probe to be considered successful
after having failed or failure threshold.
So like this, if you want to still
exclusively define other stuff
like timeout and then success thresholds,
failure thresholds,
you can go ahead
and then view this documentation link
and then add those.
So for now we are giving initial delay seconds
and then period seconds.
So in the same way we are also going to
define the one more thing which is Readiness probe.
Okay? So I am going to copy paste it,
one we already have live written it, right?
So another one we will try to copy paste it.
So it is the same one-
one is Liveness probe and next is Readiness probe.
And here instead of execute command
we are going to use hast t p get in hast tpi get.
The core thing is to which path it
need to find it and port which one?
8 0 9 5.
So we have the user management health stage,
health status page available in our application.
So we provided that and port,
and if you want you can define your host here.
But default host is going going to the part IP only.
So we really don't need to define that.
As usual we'll have in she delay
second sender period seconds.
Okay? So anyway, Liveness probe we have defined here
but we can't test that.
The reason is like our application,
we are not crashing
or we are not taking into any deadlock situation, okay?
So we cannot replicate that in this respect to demo.
But for Readiness probe
yes we are going to see that
whether after the container got started,
it is going to wait 60 seconds
to make the ready state of the container part
to be one by one.
We are going to see this descendant understand that.
Okay, so let me save this.
So I have saved it.
So now we are good.
So let's go back to our terminal and we should be in 0 5
0 3 Cuban net is Liveness and then Readiness props section.
Okay? And we are going to say cube CTL apply
hyphen F and then cube manifest.
And then it should start creating all the stuff for us
all the objects, whatever related to it.
Storage cluster, persistent volumes, config maps
all the deployments.
So we are going to say get ports hyphen w we
are going to watch it.
Okay? So first thing is it is going to
create the Myer skill container
till the Myer skill container is created.
Microservice port is going to wait
because in IT container will be there, right?
So until an, unless this is running
it'll be in the init container state.
And once the innate container is successful, then
only user management microservices application
container will start, right?
So init container is successful
and then application container pour initialized
and then it started and then you are seeing zero
by one and it is 28 seconds now and it is zero by one.
Ideally by this time it should
if there is no Readiness probe automatically it'll be one
by one here, okay?
But we have the Readiness probe for 60 seconds
for the initial delay after the container got started
which is nothing but the application container
user management rest app container.
So it is going to wait for 60 seconds.
Okay? So let's say now this is 28 seconds
and after 60 seconds it is going to come
as one by one or after 60 to 68 seconds.
Why? Because after that, again, you need to
run the Readiness probe in 10 seconds intervals, right?
So hardly within 70 seconds
which means 70 plus 28, 88 or 98 seconds.
By that time, usually our application should be up.
So let's wait for that and then see what happens.
So now you can see after 95 seconds our application is up.
Okay, so now if I go here and then verify this.
So our application should be up and running.
So our Readiness probe start started working here.
Okay, so now I can say control C
go ahead and then clean up the stuff.
In our next lecture we are going to focus
on requests and then limits.
So those also very important concepts required
for our applications to define.
So we are going to look into that request and limits
and then we'll move on to other concepts of name spaces.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.